ls - to view the contents of current dir
pwd - show current working dir
clear - erase terminal text
cd - change your working dir (e.g  cd /Desktop/cloudTech)
pushd,  popd  - The pushd command saves the current working directory in memory so it can be returned to at any time, pushd moves to the parent directory.
                The popd command returns to the path at the top of the directory stack.
                This directory stack is accessed by the command dirs in Unix or Get-Location -stack in Windows PowerShell.
file - is used to determine the type of a file
touch - create file
mkdir - create directory
cp - copy content FROM TO (e.g cp FROM TO)
find -  The find command is used to search and locate the list of files and directories based on conditions you specify for files that match the arguments.
which - The Linux which command is used to locate the executable files or location of a program from the file system. 
whatis - is used to get a one-line manual page descriptions
apropos -  command helps the user when they don't remember the exact command but knows a few keywords related to the command that define its uses or functionality.
man - is used to display the user manual of any command that we can run on the terminal.
mv -  moves files and directories from one directory to another, or renames a file or directory.
more -  is used to view the text files in the command prompt, displaying one screen at a time in case the file is large 
less - The less command is a Linux terminal pager that shows a file's contents one screen at a time. 
nano - text file modification in shell
vim - nano for boomers
echo - print something in terminal
whoami - current user
su - login as root !DO NOT USE
id - is used to find out user and group names and numeric ID's (UID or group ID) of the current user or any other user in the server.
watch - The watch command is a built-in Linux utility used for running user-defined commands at regular intervals
free - Free command in Linux operating system allows users to get a complete picture of total Ram, how much it is used, and free space. 
killall - kill the process and subprocesses basesd on name
exit - close terminal
ps aux - tasks are running 
top - table of processes
grep - line searching
kill - kill the process
wc - is a command line utility for printing newline, word and byte counts for files
sort - is used in Linux to print the output of a file in given order.
diff -  utility that allows you to compare two files line by line.
uniq - The uniq command finds the unique lines in a given input ( stdin or a filename command line argument) and either reports or removes the duplicated lines.
